He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight.
In the midst of chaos, there is also opportunity.
The greatest victory is that which requires no battle.
Quickness is the essence of the war.
Even the finest sword plunged into salt water will eventually rust.
There is no instance of a nation benefiting from prolonged warfare.
Who wishes to fight must first count the cost.
You have to believe in yourself.
Build your opponent a golden bridge to retreat across.
One may know how to conquer without being able to do it.
What the ancients called a clever fighter is one who not only wins, but excels in winning with ease.
The wise warrior avoids the battle.
The whole secret lies in confusing the enemy, so that he cannot fathom our real intent.
One mark of a great soldier is that he fight on his own terms or fights not at all.
If the mind is willing, the flesh could go on and on without many things.
He who is prudent and lies in wait for an enemy who is not, will be victorious.
Attack is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack.
Great results can be achieved with small forces.
Opportunities multiply as they are seized.
If quick, I survive. If not quick, I am lost. This is death.
Wheels of justice grind slow but grind fine.
Never venture, never win!
It is easy to love your friend, but sometimes the hardest lesson to learn is to love your enemy.
Be where your enemy is not.
Who does not know the evils of war cannot appreciate its benefits.
Plan for what it is difficult while it is easy, do what is great while it is small.
The opportunity of defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself.
Do not swallow bait offered by the enemy. Do not interfere with an army that is returning home.
We cannot enter into alliances until we are acquainted with the designs of our neighbors.
When the outlook is bright, bring it before their eyes; but tell them nothing when the situation is gloomy.
The worst calamities that befall an army arise from hesitation.
Ponder and deliberate before you make a move.
Rewards for good service should not be deferred a single day.
Begin by seizing something which your opponent holds dear; then he will be amenable to your will.
If his forces are united, separate them.
Convince your enemy that he will gain very little by attacking you; this will diminish his enthusiasm.